Reference No: 8-5-LA1189
Release ZIP: 8-5-LA1189-Deposit_Date_Picker_Never_Opens_Fix_16Aug2026.zip

LA-1189 (3rd pass) - Finance Deposits: the calendar never opens
Date: 16 August 2026

Supersedes 8-3 and 8-4. Contains everything in both; neither needs deploying
separately.

Scope
-----
Finance Module > List Accounts > Cash Deposit
Finance Module > List Accounts > Card Deposit
Finance Module > List Accounts > Cheque Deposit
Finance Module > List Accounts > Fund Transfer


WHAT THE VIDEO SHOWED, AND WHY IT CHANGES EVERYTHING
----------------------------------------------------
The recording (Deposits_date_issue.mp4, 7.9s, sonali.nivasa.shop) was examined
frame by frame - 197 frames at full rate, with the region below the date field
measured on every one of them.

THE CALENDAR NEVER APPEARS. Not once. The user clicks the date text, then the
calendar icon, repeatedly. The pixel content below the field is identical in
every frame after the modal finishes fading in. Nothing is drawn, anywhere.

That is NOT the fault described in the ticket text, and it is not the fault any
release in this series has been aimed at. LA-1176, 8-1, 8-3 and 8-4 all assumed
a calendar that OPENS and then misbehaves - wrongly placed, clipped, or with
dead arrows. Every one of those releases was treating the wrong problem. The
ticket wording ("the dates cannot be changed, and the marked sections are not
working") reads naturally as a calendar that is on screen and unresponsive,
which is how it was taken, but the video shows there is no calendar to be
unresponsive.


ROOT CAUSE
----------
There is exactly one place in the shared date binding that produces precisely
this - no calendar, no error, no clue:

    if (!$picker || !$picker.length || !$input || !$input.length
        || !$.fn.datetimepicker) {
        return null;
    }

It gives up and writes nothing anywhere. The field keeps the value the server
rendered (which is why the date still LOOKS right in the video, 08/16/2026
21:20), the page reports no error, and clicking does nothing for as long as the
form is open.

The last condition is the one most likely to be firing. The deposit form is
injected by ajax and its inline script runs the moment the HTML lands. If
bootstrap-datetimepicker has not been defined by that instant - a deferred or
late-loading bundle - the guard fails. And because binding was only ever
attempted ONCE, it never recovered afterwards, even when the plugin finished
loading a moment later. A race that is lost is lost permanently.

This also explains something otherwise puzzling: the calendar demonstrably
rendered in the 13 August screenshot on the other tenant. A load-order race
does not have to fail the same way on every install or every page load.

There is a second, related silent failure directly below it. The call to
.datetimepicker() was not guarded, so an exception there would take down the
REST of the form's ready callback - including the submit confirmation - with
nothing shown on screen.


THE FIX
-------
1. A MISSING PLUGIN NOW MEANS "NOT YET", NOT "NEVER".
   Binding retries for about five seconds - frequently at first, then backing
   off - and succeeds as soon as bootstrap-datetimepicker becomes available.
   Verified against the retry logic directly:
       - plugin arrives 900ms late  -> binds successfully, nothing reported
       - plugin never arrives       -> reports clearly after 5s
       - plugin already present     -> binds immediately, no waiting

2. NOTHING FAILS SILENTLY ANY MORE.
   Every failure path now writes a specific reason to the browser console
   prefixed FINANCE-DP, and each one says something different:
       - no date field found to bind to
       - date field has no input inside it
       - moment.js is not loaded
       - bootstrap-datetimepicker is not loaded (waited 5s)
       - bootstrap-datetimepicker threw while starting up (...)
       - bootstrap-datetimepicker ran but left no instance on the field

3. THE INITIALISATION IS WRAPPED.
   An exception while starting the picker is caught and reported instead of
   killing everything set up after it.

4. THE CALENDAR IS CHECKED THE FIRST TIME IT IS OPENED.
   Binding succeeding is not the same as the widget appearing, so the first
   time the field is used the code confirms a widget was actually created and
   is actually visible. If not, it says which - "no widget was created" versus
   "created but not visible" - which separates a plugin problem from a styling
   one.

5. WITH ?finance_dp_debug=1 ON THE URL, the reason is ALSO printed in a red
   strip directly under the date field. Four rounds have now gone by without
   the console being read; this puts the answer where it cannot be missed.
   Without the parameter it is console-only and users see nothing.

Everything from 8-4 is retained: the click fallback for the calendar's own
controls, the insulation from the compact-modal sizing, and the 40% width
reduction.


HONEST ASSESSMENT
-----------------
The load-order race is a hypothesis. It is the best-supported explanation for
the video and it is consistent with the fault being intermittent across tenants,
but it has not been proven on the running site.

What is NOT a hypothesis is that the code was hiding its own failure. Whatever
the underlying cause turns out to be, after this release the reason will be
stated instead of concealed - and if the retry is the answer, it is fixed as
well.

If the calendar still does not open after this, the console will now contain one
line beginning FINANCE-DP naming the reason, and that single line finishes this
ticket. With ?finance_dp_debug=1 it will be on screen under the field.


Changed Code Files
------------------
Modules/Finance/Resources/views/account/partials/date_picker_bind.blade.php
Modules/Finance/Resources/views/account/deposit.blade.php
Modules/Finance/Resources/views/account/transfer.blade.php
Modules/Finance/Resources/views/account/cheque_deposit.blade.php

Database
--------
No migration or SQL required.

Deployment
----------
Extract from the Laravel project root preserving the Modules/Finance path, then:

php artisan optimize:clear

Validation Performed
--------------------
- Video examined frame by frame: 197 frames measured, calendar absent in all.
- Structural check of all four changed Blade files: passed.
- The complete <script> block parsed as JavaScript by Node: passed.
- Retry logic exercised directly across three cases (late plugin, absent
  plugin, plugin already present): all behaved correctly.
- The 8-4 fallback checks re-run: still takes no action across 50 consecutive
  clicks with a responding library.
- Day-selection maths re-run including both year boundaries: still correct.

NOT YET PERFORMED
-----------------
No PHP runtime or browser here, so Blade compilation and click testing remain
to be done on the tenant server.

A SIDE OBSERVATION FROM THE VIDEO
---------------------------------
The Deposit dialog in the recording measures roughly 80% of the viewport width.
The shared compact sizing has been setting it to 72% since S-627, and 8-4 takes
it to 43.2%. A dialog at 80% suggests the compact stylesheet was not in effect
on that page load at all.

That is worth checking on its own, because if that stylesheet is not applying
then neither are the other rules scoped the same way, several of which this
series has relied on. The width change in 8-4/8-5 is a quick way to tell: if
the dialog does not become noticeably narrower after deploying this, the
compact styling is not reaching the page and that is a separate fault worth
raising as its own ticket.
