PETROGENERAL MODULE - IS2288 DAILY STATUS REPORT FIX
Date: 16 September 2026

ISSUES FIXED
After selecting a date, the report displayed "Unable to load this section.
Please refresh the report." instead of the related data in:

1. Dip Details Section
2. Pump Sales Details
3. Fuel Sale Summary
4. Lubricant Sale
5. Other Sales
6. Gas Sales
7. Total Payment Summary
8. Credit Sales

ROOT CAUSE
The latest PetroGeneral route registrar protects the installed module from old
route-cache and core-module collisions by exposing the authoritative named
routes under /petro-general-live. The Daily Status page still called hard-coded
/petro-general URLs. Those requests could therefore be intercepted by an older
or conflicting route and return HTML/error content instead of the JSON expected
by DataTables.

The report refresh list also omitted Gas Sales, so that section did not reload
when the date range or location changed.

CHANGED FILE
PetroGeneral/Resources/views/daily_status_report/index.blade.php

CHANGES
- Replaced every hard-coded Daily Status AJAX URL with its authoritative named
  PetroGeneral route.
- Updated Dip Details, Pump Sales, Fuel Sales, Lubricants, Other Sales, Gas
  Sales, Credit Sales and Total Payments.
- Updated the report form, Print and PDF endpoints to the same safe route family.
- Added Gas Sales to the date/location refresh operation.
- Made all client-side total calculations safe for numeric, formatted, null or
  missing values, preventing a section draw from being interrupted by NaN or a
  string-only .replace() call.

VALIDATION COMPLETED
- Daily Status JavaScript syntax check: PASS
- Named-route declaration and usage contract: PASS
- All seven DataTables included in date/location refresh: PASS
- No hard-coded /petro-general Daily Status endpoint remains: PASS
- ZIP integrity checks: complete during parcel creation

DATABASE / SQL
No database change, migration or SQL import is required.

DEPLOYMENT
Use either the full consolidated module parcel or the changed-files-only parcel.
Do not install both.

After upload/extraction, run from the Laravel project root:
php artisan optimize:clear

Then refresh the browser with Ctrl+F5 and test Petro General -> Daily Status
Report with a known date and location.

