IS2290 - Customer Ledger duplicate payment fix
Date: 16 September 2026

Reported issue
--------------
Customer Register > Action > Ledger showed the customer payment 72,205.34
more than once, although Customer Reports > Payment Report correctly showed one
logical payment.

Root cause
----------
The existing duplicate guard only collapsed repeated contact_ledgers rows when
they pointed to the same transaction_payment_id. Historical payment edits or
retries can leave rows linked to different payment IDs that share the same
payment reference. A ledger row linked to a soft-deleted payment revision could
also remain visible even though the Payment Report excludes that revision.

Fix
---
Updated Services/CustomerPaymentDuplicateResolver.php to:

1. Exclude a ledger row when its linked transaction payment exists and is soft
   deleted. Missing/unlinked legacy ledger records are left unchanged.
2. Keep only the earliest live ledger posting for the same business, customer,
   debit/credit direction, amount, and non-empty payment reference.
3. Apply the same logical-payment de-duplication after fallback ledger rows are
   merged. Old cheque rows without a payment reference use cheque number and
   bank as their durable identity.
4. Preserve distinct payments when their reference, customer, direction, or
   amount differs. Anonymous cash/bank entries are not collapsed.

The shared resolver is used by the ledger row query and the ledger aggregate
queries, so the displayed rows, running balance, Customer Register total due,
and dashboard outstanding stay consistent.

Data impact
-----------
No payment, ledger, accounting, or audit records are deleted or modified by
this display/aggregation fix. No SQL migration is required.

Deployment
----------
Replace the Customers module with the supplied full ZIP, or copy the files from
the changed-files-only ZIP while preserving their paths. Then run:

    php artisan optimize:clear

Refresh the browser with Ctrl+F5 and re-open the affected customer's Ledger.

Expected result
---------------
The 72,205.34 payment appears once. A separate genuine payment such as 66,396.00
continues to appear as its own entry, and ledger totals use the same result.
